>> Estelle Weyl: Now that we've talked
about where we're going to place it,
let's talk about its shape and its size.
So you have two options.
You have circle and ellipse.
If you didn't know this,
a circle is an ellipse.
But it's an ellipse that is
the same height as width.
So ellipse is the default.
And if you have a square, right?
A square size background image.
It's probably gonna be a circle,
if it's positioned in the middle.
The circle or
the ellipse can be declared explicitly or
implied via a declaration size.
If you declare the size and you only
use one value, then that's the radius.
If you declare two values, it's
the width and the height in that order.
And the percentage size is only for
ellipses,
though you might end up with
a circle if it's, you know.
So here we have an ellipse.
>> Estelle Weyl: That is in the center
because we didn't actually say at 50 50,
but we could have said ellipse at 50%.
50% right?
>> Estelle Weyl: We
could've said circle at 50% 50%, and
we could have said 20% 20%,
okay.
>> Estelle Weyl: Notice
that it got bigger, right?
The circle got bigger.
>> Estelle Weyl: Right
now it fits in the page,
and when we did 10%.
It was way bigger that the height of the
page, we'll cover that in a minute, but
just notice that that happened.
So you can have circle,
you can have ellipse.
Ellipse by default, we'll have the same
aspect ration as the image size.
>> Estelle Weyl: But
it's usually not by default.
So you saw here when I had it at 10%,
>> Estelle Weyl: That it was
now taller than was wide.
That's because it goes to the furtherst
corner and we'll cover that in a minute.
But just want to point that out.
Okay, so in this example I
just said ellipse or circle.
I didn't give it a size,
you can actually give it a size.
Here it's a 640 by 490,
which is actually the size of the slide.
And that's why, if I actually did this.
>> Estelle Weyl: This and
this are the exact same because
I gave it the size of the slide.
But if I gave it 300 or 200, 100.
200, right?
It's basically 200 pixels tall.
And 640 pixels wide.
It's 200 pixels from here to this
point here, the outside of the purple.
Rebecca purple.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so
you see it's going to be on
the bounds of the parent.
Because it's 640px from this point,
to the end of that gradient.
So if I wanted it to fit.
I think I would have to do 320.
No, I don't know how big my thing is.
It's probably 500.
960 would be 480.
Yeah okay, it's closer to 480.
And not, it's closer to 960.
I think the [INAUDIBLE] is 900, right?
450, yep.
It's 450 pixels.
My screen, the slide area is
900 pixels by, I believe, 470.
So that would be 230, except for
it's not, so I don't know how tall it is.
So, that's sizing,
you can size it any way you like.
However, if you want a circle,
you just give one.
Since that's too big to really see,
let's do two hundred and fifty pixels.
We can make this five percent and
five percent.
Actually lets make it 15%.
[INAUDIBLE] 15%.
We now have a 45.
Does anyone know here what a 45 is?
Some people are old enough.
Okay, it's like a little record.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay,
percentages only work wit ellipsis.
Because they're relative
to the Background size.
So it'll turn into a circle if you have
the same background image that's a square.
But by default, it will be in ellipse.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay,
so the thing to notice, however If
you're using percentages, right?
As a length, you need to.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
now it's 50% of the width and
50% of the height.
When you only declare one, it fails.
Because the first value
is the horizontal and
there is no vertical
>> Estelle Weyl: That could be one pixel.
And there you have a line at 200 pixels,
there.
That's ugly.
Okay, that's better.
Okay next, you can also size,
right now we've done lengths.
Percentages, you can also use key terms.
And the default, when you don't use any
size whatsoever it's farthest corner.
So right now,
the center of my thing is right here.
And it goes all the way to here
cause that's the farthest corner.
You could say basically make
the edge the closest side.
But 100% mark the closest side,
the closest corner, the farthest side, or
the farthest corner.
We used to have contain and cover.
These are no longer supported.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
you can barely see it but
there's a tiny bit of purple here.
Because at the 98% mark it hits
It hits the farthest corner,
right here at the 100% mark.
So we just have a teeny bit of purple.
>> Estelle Weyl: If I
do closest corner
>> Estelle Weyl: it's gonna
be kind of small cuz the closest
corner is right down here.
And it's pale goldenrod all the way
till two pixels to the end, right?
So you can't see it cause
there's the scroll bar, but
you can see a dot of purple.
So let's just make this 96 and
then 96, and you can
kind of see a little bit more.
But look at all this Rebecca purple.
So the end of our gradient
is actually here.
But it continues on with the last
value and fills up the whole screen.
Let's move this from bottom
40 pixels to center.
Actually no, 40%.
>> Estelle Weyl: Actually, let's do 30,
30.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay so here,
our circle got much bigger
because the closest corner.
It's still the closest
corner is down there, right?
But the size of the circle is whatever the
length is from that dot to that corner.
>> Estelle Weyl: And so for 90%,
6% which is of the 100%,
it's gonna be and run.
So let's try, close this side.
>> Estelle Weyl: There,
it's smaller because the closest side is
closer than the closest corner, right?
This From this dot to the end,
it's closer today from this dot to that.
You're always gonna have closest
side be shorter than closest corner.
And farthest corner is always gonna
be farther than farthest side.
>> Estelle Weyl: Farthest-side is here.
Farthest-corner is gonna be a point
in my screen that's [INAUDIBLE].
It's gonna be up here.
So those are the key terms.
A closest corner, closest-side,
farthest-corner, and farthest-side.
And here are the explanations if you want
them.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
here I'm using background size to actually
make something slightly cute
that you would never ever want.
If we actually did five pixels
by five pixels, that might make
a decent background, right?
Because if I pick better
colors because it's subtle.
Could be subtle if we do light gray.
That's a decent background, right?
>> Estelle Weyl: 50 pixels by 50 pixels.
Not really.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
what I did here is it does background
image is a radial gradient.
I want it to be a circle.
And the I said the background
size should be 50, 50.
So the circle.
Is basically saying, from the 0% mark
to the 50% mark, make it purple.
And from the 50% to the 100% mark,
make it gray.
So we basically have a purple
area that is 25 pixels wide and
a but it looks more like 3020.
It's the radius.
So the radius is 50% of,
it's a radius, it's not the diameter.